README.md, before:

# Prometheus-X Dataspace Connector

The Data Space Connector is an open source project aimed to facilitate the onboarding and participants of organisations in the data space. It is built with simplicity in mind and offers the necessary functionalities for organisations to communicate with the core components of the data space such as [Catalogue](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/catalog-api) for resources, offerings and data space use cases management, [Contract](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/contract-manager) for negotiation and contract verification and [Consent](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/consent-manager) for the management of consent driven data exchanges.

## Installation

### Classic installation

1. Clone the repository from GitHub:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/dataspace-connector.git
```
2. Install packages using pnpm
```bash
npm i -g pnpm # If pnpm is not installed
pnpm i
```
3. Copy the .env.sample into a .env of your choice (.env, .env.development...) and set your environment variables
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```
4. Copy the config.sample.json into a config.json and set your configuration variables
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```

## Docker
You can launch the data space connector with docker and docker compose, by using the following command at the root of the project.
```bash
docker compose build && docker compose up -d
```
or

```bash
docker compose up -d
```
The docker compose file will launch the app and a mongodb container.
Using your own mongodb database is possible by updating the following variable in your .env
```bash
MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/dataspace-connector
```

## Documentation

1. [Overview](./docs/OVERVIEW.md)
2. [Getting started](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md)
3. [Data Exchange](./docs/DATA_EXCHANGE.md)
4. [Resource representation](./docs/RESOURCE_REPRESENTATION.md)
5. [Credentials](./docs/CREDENTIALS.md)
6. [User management](./docs/USER_MANAGEMENT.md)

## Contributing

Contributions to the Prometheus-X Dataspace Connector are welcome! If you would like to contribute, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Make the necessary code changes, adhering to the project's coding style and guidelines.
4. Write appropriate tests to ensure code integrity.
5. Commit your changes and push the branch to your forked repository.
6. Submit a pull request to the main repository, describing your changes in detail.

Please ensure that your contributions align with the project's coding standards, have proper test coverage, and include necessary documentation or updates to existing documentation.

## License

The Prometheus-X Dataspace Connector is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE). You are free to use, modify, and distribute the software as per the terms specified in the license.

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions regarding the Prometheus-X Catalog Registry, feel free to open an issue on the GitHub repository. The project maintainers and community members will be happy to assist you.

Commit message:

feat: added RSA key for private repo in docker feat: added config.json for docker sandbox feat: updated docs

README.md, after:

# Prometheus-X Dataspace Connector

The Data Space Connector is an open source project aimed to facilitate the onboarding and participants of organisations in the data space. It is built with simplicity in mind and offers the necessary functionalities for organisations to communicate with the core components of the data space such as [Catalogue](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/catalog-api) for resources, offerings and data space use cases management, [Contract](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/contract-manager) for negotiation and contract verification and [Consent](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/consent-manager) for the management of consent driven data exchanges.

## Installation

### Classic installation

1. Clone the repository from GitHub:
```bash
git clone https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/dataspace-connector.git
```
2. add your private rsa key for private repository at the root of the directory named **id_rsa**
3. Install packages using pnpm
```bash
npm i -g pnpm # If pnpm is not installed
pnpm i
```
4. Copy the .env.sample into a .env of your choice (.env, .env.development...) and set your environment variables
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```
5. Copy the config.sample.json into a config.json and set your configuration variables
```bash
cp .env.sample .env
```

## Docker
You can launch the data space connector with docker and docker compose, by using the following command at the root of the project.

You need first to add the needed variables in the config.json for the consumer and the provider inside 
```
/sandbox/consumer/config.json
```
```
/sandbox/provider/config.json
```
```bash
docker compose build && docker compose up -d
```
or

```bash
docker compose up -d
```
The docker compose file will launch the app and a mongodb container.
Using your own mongodb database is possible by updating the following variable in your .env
```bash
MONGO_URI=mongodb://mongodb:27017/dataspace-connector
```

## Documentation

1. [Overview](./docs/OVERVIEW.md)
2. [Getting started](./docs/GETTING_STARTED.md)
3. [Data Exchange](./docs/DATA_EXCHANGE.md)
4. [Resource representation](./docs/RESOURCE_REPRESENTATION.md)
5. [Credentials](./docs/CREDENTIALS.md)
6. [User management](./docs/USER_MANAGEMENT.md)

## Contributing

Contributions to the Prometheus-X Dataspace Connector are welcome! If you would like to contribute, please follow these steps:

1. Fork the repository on GitHub.
2. Create a new branch for your feature or bug fix.
3. Make the necessary code changes, adhering to the project's coding style and guidelines.
4. Write appropriate tests to ensure code integrity.
5. Commit your changes and push the branch to your forked repository.
6. Submit a pull request to the main repository, describing your changes in detail.

Please ensure that your contributions align with the project's coding standards, have proper test coverage, and include necessary documentation or updates to existing documentation.

## License

The Prometheus-X Dataspace Connector is released under the [MIT License](LICENSE). You are free to use, modify, and distribute the software as per the terms specified in the license.

## Support

If you encounter any issues or have questions regarding the Prometheus-X Catalog Registry, feel free to open an issue on the GitHub repository. The project maintainers and community members will be happy to assist you.
