docs/GETTING_STARTED.md, before:

# Getting started with the data space connector

To get started with the data space connector, you have several options. The project comes with a docker file that allows you to easily install it at any location you see fit. The second option is to run the project without using docker and while possible, it requires additionnal overhead configuration.

## Composition & architecture

One of the aims for the data space connector was to keep it light and simple and only include the most mandatory and necessary features related to interactions with the data space.

Four services compose the architecture of the connector

```mermaid
graph LR
    PrivateAPI <--> PDCDatabase
    PDCDatabase <--> PublicAPI
    PublicAPI <--> AccessControl
```

| service        | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Admin API      | Allows for administration and configuration of the connector through API                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Public API     | Exposes the public endpoints for communication with the infrastructure services of the data space and to enable data exchange flows                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Mongo Database | The "internal" database of the connector holding necessary information for the configuration of the connector as well as tracking data exchange processes. Currently, the connector only supports a mongo database for this purpose, however, the addition of more database support is planned to enable easier custom configurations |
| ODRL Manager   | The Policy enforcement point and contract verifications of the connector relying on Prometheus-X's [ODRL Manager library](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/odrl-manager) for ODRL interpretation                                                                                                                           |

## Configuration of the connector

The connector can be configured one of two ways, either through manual editing of a JSON configuration file, or by making individual configuration calls to the Admin API.

### Configuring Environment and JSON Files for the Data Space Connector

To correctly set up the data space connector, you need to create configuration files with appropriate suffixes. These suffixes are directly tied to the commands defined in the `scripts` section of the `package.json` file.

#### The `.env` file

The `.env` file is used to define environment variables in a key-value pair format, controlling various runtime settings like ports, database connections, and secrets.

##### File Naming Convention

Create `.env.ENV` files where ENV matches the script suffix from the package.json file. For example:

- For `npm run start` &rarr; `.env.production`

##### Example Content of `.env.production`

```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3401
SESSION_SECRET=abc
SESSION_COOKIE_EXPIRATION=24000
MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://user:password@cluster.abc.mongodb.net/dataspace-connector # Configured with external database (example)
CURATOR=https://visionspol.eu
MAINTAINER=https://visionspol.eu

# Logs
WINSTON_LOGS_MAX_FILES=14d
WINSTON_LOGS_MAX_SIZE=20m
```

#### The config.ENV.json file

The config.ENV.json file is used to configure the data space connector's settings. It is a JSON file that contains key-value pairs, where each key is a configuration option and each value is the value assigned to that option.

To enable editing of the config.json file, start by copying the [config.sample.json](../src/config.sample.json) to a config.ENV.json file. The configuration file requires a suffix based on the command used to launch the connector. The suffix `ENV` must match the command used in package.json.

##### Steps to Create the File

- copy the sample configuration file 
    ```bash
    cp config.sample.json config.production.json
    ```

- Modify the `config.production.json` as needed

##### File naming convention

- `npm run start` → `config.production.json`

The contents of the config.json file are simple

```jsonc
{
    "endpoint": "", // Default endpoint of the connector
    "serviceKey": "", // Client ID API credential for the catalogue
    "secretKey": "", // Client Secret API credential for the catalogue
    "catalogUri": "", // URL of the catalogue) service to use
    "contractUri": "", // URL of the contract service to use
    "consentUri": "", // URL of the consent service to use (if relevant)
    "credentials": [], // The credentials created through the connector
    "registrationUri": "", // Participant API URL where users can be registered
    "expressLimitSize": "" // Express limit body size, only kb, mb and gb accepted, example: 20mb, 200kb, 2gb
}
```

| key | mandatory | description |                        
| - | - | - |
| `endpoint` | yes | This is where the connector lives, as the connector is an independant application, it has its own domain, the default endpoint is the base url for this domain. When running a GET request on this endpoint the connector will serve its public Self-Description                                                  |
| `serviceKey`  |yes | When onboarded onto a [Catalogue](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/catalog-api), the catalogue will generate API credentials for the participant. These can then be used to generate a bearer JWT token to authenticate requests to the catalogue's API. The serviceKey is the equivalent for clientID |
| `secretKey` | yes   | The equivalent for clientSecret of the Catalogue API credentials   |
| `catalogUri` | yes  | The base URL of the [Catalogue](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/catalog-api) service used as infrastructure service. |
| `contractUri` | yes  | The base URL of the [Contract](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/contract-manager) service used as infrastructure service.  |
| `consentUri` | no (depending on needs of your dataspace) | The base URL of the [Consent](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/consent-manager) service used as infrastructure service. This should be informed only if you plan to share personal data and need consent management solutions. |
| `credentials` | no (Will be set automatically when registering new credentials)  | [optional] Credentials used by the connector to communicate with your application. More details about credentials can be found [here](./CREDENTIALS.md). |
| `registrationUri` | no | [optional] The endpoint that will be used by the connector to attempt to register individuals automatically when needed. More information about what this endpoint is for is exlained in the consent flows of the [User Management section](./USER_MANAGEMENT.md#consent-flows-for-user-management)               |
| `expressLimitSize` | no | [optional] Optional configuration to increase the body size of request that express can accept, by default it's set to 2mb. you can increase or decrease this value by setting this params. The value accepted are "kb", "mb" and "gb". Example: 200kb, 20mb, 2gb.                                                |

> The catalogUri and contractUri should end with a "/" to work properly (ex: http://catalog.api.com/v1/ depending on the catalog you will use).

#### Option 1. Manual edition of the configuration

As stated above, one of the ways to edit the configuration and manually edit the config.json file to update these values. It is the recommended approach as the simplest to use and since there only a very few amount of values to edit, it remains a very quick configuration process.

#### Option 2. Editing the configuration through API

The Admin API of the data space connector enables for updating configuration values through authenticated PUT requests. This can be useful for any integration & automation of the connector's configuration.
To update the configuration using curl, run:

```bash
curl -X PUT http://your-connector-url/private/configuration \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{
            "endpoint": "http://new-connector-domain.com",
            "serviceKey": "your-service-key",
            "secretKey": "your-secret-key",
            "catalogUri": "http://catalog.example.com/v1/",
            "contractUri": "http://contract.example.com/v1/",
            "consentUri": "http://consent.example.com/v1/"
        }'
```

Ensure you replace the placeholder values with your actual configuration details.

> For any change done to the config.json file, you need to force a connector reload for the configuration to be applied. This is because changes should be repercuted inside of the connector's database as well.
>
>```bash
>curl -X POST http://your-connector-url/private/configuration/reload
>```

### Why do I need to specify my API credentials to the connector ?

The Data Space Connector runs API calls and processes on behalf of the participant when interacting with infrastructure services to manage resources and participate in data exchanges. The infrastructure services require authentication to be used, and in that regard, the authentication used should be based on the participant's API credentials.

### Why do I need to specify the Catalog / Contract service used ?

Prometheus-X's idea is to have "n" amount of Prometheus-X Catalogue services, contract services or consent services. Any entity wanting to have the responsibility of managing a catalogue service can take the Prometheus-X catalogue code and run an instance of it allowing for a wider array of participation in data spaces.

The `catalogUri` that should be specified is the one where the participant has onboarded itself in order for the data space connector to communicate with the catalogue that knows the participant.

---

\>\> [Data Exchange](./DATA_EXCHANGE.md)

Commit message:

chore(version): 1.9.2 fix(config): fix error from env and config.json file fix(submodule): fix submodule error by deleting git init in Dockerfile

docs/GETTING_STARTED.md, after:

# Getting started with the data space connector

To get started with the data space connector, you have several options. The project comes with a docker file that allows you to easily install it at any location you see fit. The second option is to run the project without using docker and while possible, it requires additionnal overhead configuration.

## Composition & architecture

One of the aims for the data space connector was to keep it light and simple and only include the most mandatory and necessary features related to interactions with the data space.

Four services compose the architecture of the connector

```mermaid
graph LR
    PrivateAPI <--> PDCDatabase
    PDCDatabase <--> PublicAPI
    PublicAPI <--> AccessControl
```

| service        | description                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                           |
| -------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Admin API      | Allows for administration and configuration of the connector through API                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                              |
| Public API     | Exposes the public endpoints for communication with the infrastructure services of the data space and to enable data exchange flows                                                                                                                                                                                                   |
| Mongo Database | The "internal" database of the connector holding necessary information for the configuration of the connector as well as tracking data exchange processes. Currently, the connector only supports a mongo database for this purpose, however, the addition of more database support is planned to enable easier custom configurations |
| ODRL Manager   | The Policy enforcement point and contract verifications of the connector relying on Prometheus-X's [ODRL Manager library](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/odrl-manager) for ODRL interpretation                                                                                                                           |

## Configuration of the connector

The connector can be configured one of two ways, either through manual editing of a JSON configuration file, or by making individual configuration calls to the Admin API.

### Configuring Environment and JSON Files for the Data Space Connector

To correctly set up the data space connector, you need to create configuration files with appropriate suffixes. These suffixes are directly tied to the commands defined in the `scripts` section of the `package.json` file.

#### The `.env` file

The `.env` file is used to define environment variables in a key-value pair format, controlling various runtime settings like ports, database connections, and secrets.

##### File Naming Convention

> By default, if the naming convention is not respected the connector will use .env and config.json files if they exist.

Create `.env.ENV` files where ENV matches the script suffix from the package.json file. For example:

- For `npm run start` &rarr; `.env.production`

##### Example Content of `.env.production`

```bash
NODE_ENV=production
PORT=3401
SESSION_SECRET=abc
SESSION_COOKIE_EXPIRATION=24000
MONGO_URI=mongodb+srv://user:password@cluster.abc.mongodb.net/dataspace-connector # Configured with external database (example)
CURATOR=https://visionspol.eu
MAINTAINER=https://visionspol.eu

# Logs
WINSTON_LOGS_MAX_FILES=14d
WINSTON_LOGS_MAX_SIZE=20m
```

> Use the command `docker compose --env-file .env.production up -d --build` if you're using docker and specify the environment 

#### The config.ENV.json file

The config.ENV.json file is used to configure the data space connector's settings. It is a JSON file that contains key-value pairs, where each key is a configuration option and each value is the value assigned to that option.

To enable editing of the config.json file, start by copying the [config.sample.json](../src/config.sample.json) to a config.ENV.json file. The configuration file requires a suffix based on the command used to launch the connector. The suffix `ENV` must match the command used in package.json.

##### Steps to Create the File

- copy the sample configuration file 
    ```bash
    cp config.sample.json config.production.json
    ```

- Modify the `config.production.json` as needed

##### File naming convention

- `npm run start` → `config.production.json`

The contents of the config.json file are simple

```jsonc
{
    "endpoint": "", // Default endpoint of the connector
    "serviceKey": "", // Client ID API credential for the catalogue
    "secretKey": "", // Client Secret API credential for the catalogue
    "catalogUri": "", // URL of the catalogue) service to use
    "contractUri": "", // URL of the contract service to use
    "consentUri": "", // URL of the consent service to use (if relevant)
    "credentials": [], // The credentials created through the connector
    "registrationUri": "", // Participant API URL where users can be registered
    "expressLimitSize": "" // Express limit body size, only kb, mb and gb accepted, example: 20mb, 200kb, 2gb
}
```

| key | mandatory | description |                        
| - | - | - |
| `endpoint` | yes | This is where the connector lives, as the connector is an independant application, it has its own domain, the default endpoint is the base url for this domain. When running a GET request on this endpoint the connector will serve its public Self-Description                                                  |
| `serviceKey`  |yes | When onboarded onto a [Catalogue](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/catalog-api), the catalogue will generate API credentials for the participant. These can then be used to generate a bearer JWT token to authenticate requests to the catalogue's API. The serviceKey is the equivalent for clientID |
| `secretKey` | yes   | The equivalent for clientSecret of the Catalogue API credentials   |
| `catalogUri` | yes  | The base URL of the [Catalogue](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/catalog-api) service used as infrastructure service. |
| `contractUri` | yes  | The base URL of the [Contract](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/contract-manager) service used as infrastructure service.  |
| `consentUri` | no (depending on needs of your dataspace) | The base URL of the [Consent](https://github.com/Prometheus-X-association/consent-manager) service used as infrastructure service. This should be informed only if you plan to share personal data and need consent management solutions. |
| `credentials` | no (Will be set automatically when registering new credentials)  | [optional] Credentials used by the connector to communicate with your application. More details about credentials can be found [here](./CREDENTIALS.md). |
| `registrationUri` | no | [optional] The endpoint that will be used by the connector to attempt to register individuals automatically when needed. More information about what this endpoint is for is exlained in the consent flows of the [User Management section](./USER_MANAGEMENT.md#consent-flows-for-user-management)               |
| `expressLimitSize` | no | [optional] Optional configuration to increase the body size of request that express can accept, by default it's set to 2mb. you can increase or decrease this value by setting this params. The value accepted are "kb", "mb" and "gb". Example: 200kb, 20mb, 2gb.                                                |

> The catalogUri and contractUri should end with a "/" to work properly (ex: http://catalog.api.com/v1/ depending on the catalog you will use).

#### Option 1. Manual edition of the configuration

As stated above, one of the ways to edit the configuration and manually edit the config.json file to update these values. It is the recommended approach as the simplest to use and since there only a very few amount of values to edit, it remains a very quick configuration process.

#### Option 2. Editing the configuration through API

The Admin API of the data space connector enables for updating configuration values through authenticated PUT requests. This can be useful for any integration & automation of the connector's configuration.
To update the configuration using curl, run:

```bash
curl -X PUT http://your-connector-url/private/configuration \
    -H "Content-Type: application/json" \
    -d '{
            "endpoint": "http://new-connector-domain.com",
            "serviceKey": "your-service-key",
            "secretKey": "your-secret-key",
            "catalogUri": "http://catalog.example.com/v1/",
            "contractUri": "http://contract.example.com/v1/",
            "consentUri": "http://consent.example.com/v1/"
        }'
```

Ensure you replace the placeholder values with your actual configuration details.

> For any change done to the config.json file, you need to force a connector reload for the configuration to be applied. This is because changes should be repercuted inside of the connector's database as well.
>
>```bash
>curl -X POST http://your-connector-url/private/configuration/reload
>```

### Why do I need to specify my API credentials to the connector ?

The Data Space Connector runs API calls and processes on behalf of the participant when interacting with infrastructure services to manage resources and participate in data exchanges. The infrastructure services require authentication to be used, and in that regard, the authentication used should be based on the participant's API credentials.

### Why do I need to specify the Catalog / Contract service used ?

Prometheus-X's idea is to have "n" amount of Prometheus-X Catalogue services, contract services or consent services. Any entity wanting to have the responsibility of managing a catalogue service can take the Prometheus-X catalogue code and run an instance of it allowing for a wider array of participation in data spaces.

The `catalogUri` that should be specified is the one where the participant has onboarded itself in order for the data space connector to communicate with the catalogue that knows the participant.

---

\>\> [Data Exchange](./DATA_EXCHANGE.md)
